W-11862525-first-draft-for-beta-site-build-CP (#114)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-4-scaffolding-reference.adoc

= Scaffolding Reference
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: creating-an-apikit-4-project-with-maven.adoc

Generate the backbone of a REST API implementation based on RESTful API Modeling Language (RAML) or OpenAPI Specifications (OAS) with APIkit for REST scaffolder.

== Tooling

> Studio offers several ways to get an API scaffolded:

Reviewer: "scaffold an API"?

Author: I'll try to reword keeping the coherence with the other H2.
Thanks!

Reviewer: I meant to suggest replacing "get an API scaffolded" with "scaffold an API" (to avoid passive voice and "get").

Reviewer: @Crispy-Salesforce

Author: Oh! I didn't get that! You're right!
Thanks!

> * From *New Mule Project wizard*, select *Scaffold Flows From These API Specifications* when importing a published API from Exchange or Maven, when importing from a local file, or when downloading from Design Center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From *New Mule Project wizard*, select *Scaffold Flows From These API Specifications* when importing a published API from Exchange or Maven, importing from a local file, or downloading from Design Center.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> * From *Package Explorer*, right-click the API file and select *Generate flows from Local REST API* from the *Mule* context menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From *Package Explorer*, right-click the API file and select *Mule* > *Generate flows from Local REST API*.
```

Author: I like it! Thanks!

* From *Package Explorer*, right-click the API dependency and select *Generate flows* from its context menu.

NOTE: Scaffolding from a local file is not supported for OAS. Scaffolding OAS APIs is available only for published assets in Exchange.

== Implementation Reference

When scaffolding a REST API specification, APIkit generates the following components:

> * A *main flow* that act as the entry point and includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A *main flow* that acts as the entry point and includes:
```

Author: Great catch! Thanks!

** *HTTP Listener* as a source
** *APIkit Router* as the main operation
+

> The *APIkit Router* is a crucial message processor that directs messages from incoming API requests to the corresponding Mule flows and generates a serialized response. It enhances messages by including default values. For instance, if a request is invalid, APIkit produces a `bad request` response. If the requested API resource lacks an associated flow, APIkit returns a `not implemented` response.

Reviewer: What does "enhances messages by including default values" mean? Is bad request a default value?

Author: Yes! You're right! "Bad request" is a default value for queries that do not comply with the standard.
Thanks!

Reviewer: OK, it's not that clear to me.

Reviewer: @Crispy-Salesforce

Author: Hi, @hannanelson!
Is it clearer now? Thanks!

Reviewer: I don't see the difference. I guess I'd like to see a connection between the default values and the different responses. See suggestion.

Author: OK! Thanks!

> The *APIkit Router* is a crucial message processor that directs messages from incoming API requests to the corresponding Mule flows and generates a serialized response. It enhances messages by including default values. For instance, if a request is invalid, APIkit produces a `bad request` response. If the requested API resource lacks an associated flow, APIkit returns a `not implemented` response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *APIkit Router* is a message processor that directs messages from incoming API requests to the corresponding Mule flows and generates a serialized response using default values. For example, if a request is invalid, APIkit produces a `bad request` response. If the requested API resource lacks an associated flow, APIkit returns a `not implemented` response.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
While the *APIkit Router* validates aspects such as request payload, headers, query parameters, and URI parameters, it does not validate all elements specified in an API specification. Specifically, the router does not perform security-related validation, such as authentication enforcement. Instead, the API gateway policies are responsible for this validation, which occurs before the request reaches the router.
** *Error Handler*

* A *secondary flow* that exposes the API console and includes:
** *HTTP Listener* as a source
** *APIkit Console* as the main operation
** *Error Handler*

> * In addition to N flows, one per API action-resource-content-type combination, each of flow includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In addition to N flows, one per API action-resource-content-type combination, each flow includes:
```

Reviewer: What does "N flows" mean?

Author: "N flows" is an undefined number of things. You say "N flows" meaning that it could be one flow, 10 flows, 1000 flows, etc. The number of flows does not affect the action described.
Thanks!

> ** No source (this is a special design characteristic of APIkit for REST and SOAP applications only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** No source (this option is available for APIkit for REST and SOAP applications only)
```

Reviewer: Avoid "design characteristic". Users care about how it affects them, not the implementation.

Author: OK! Thanks!

** A mock implementation you substitute later with your actual business logic

> Consider the following example as a reference:

Reviewer: Consider replacing this with a heading like "Example: <description of the code>"

Author: I like it! Thanks!
